Hello, I'm Suphadej  Himaman
lecturer at the Faculty of Architecture. art and design
Naresuan University Phitsanulok Province
For the work that you have seen The work is called "Socialize"
The work of the organizer has brought the concept of using auspicious beliefs.
of Thai people of Chinese descent to participate in the design
In terms of the sculpture's shape, it imitates
the octagonal lantern made of paper.
Which he will be used to decorate the house to invoke auspiciousness into the house.
or decorated along a long trade area to create an atmosphere that attracts customers to enter the store
Lanterns often have decorations that convey auspicious things,
such as Chinese characters with good meanings. various auspicious animals on paper
whether it's printing, drawing or stenciling.
The organizer has brought to imitate the octagonal lamp
to be larger. As a door arch used to decorate by stenciling
by a metal stencil Using Chinese paper-cutting techniques
which is unique, openwork pattern, 4 directions, leading to ancient astronomy of China
in dividing the sky into 4 parts,
namely North, South, East and West
, with the animals of the direction representing auspicious meaning on the wall
by this wall There are decorations as follows.
There is a "black turtle" as the animal of the north. Representing the element of water
and winter, decorated with water waves and flowers, regular lotuses,
representing stability, longevity, happiness
"Red Swan" is the animal of the south. Representative of the element of fire and summer
The pattern is similar to the sun.
the nature of the swan where there will be a flame Which represents rebirth, a
symbol of good fortune, wealth, decorated with plum blossoms,
"Green Dragon", the animal of the East. Representative of the wood and spring elements
decorated with patterns cut peonies and lace
chinese green dragon The head is a kirin, the body is a snake, and the tail is a fish,
symbolizing prestige, honor and prosperity.
The white tiger is the animal of the west. Representing the golden element,
autumn, the pattern is a gold coin. and chrysanthemums
The white tiger represents the protector and power. protection reverence
The gable of the sculpture arch brings the character of a Chinese shrine.
which takes into account the matter of direction and elements in the design as well
The meeting of auspicious animals from these four directions is
like a combination of happiness.
Prosperity, longevity, fortune, wealth, prestige and power
In addition, Chinese characters used to decorate the four directions will have a good meaning.
which will create a good meaning for those who visit as well
Lighting design, the designer has used the concept of lighting.
that uses light to help both during the day and at night
During the day, use direct natural light.
sunlight shining through the sculpture This will cause the surrounding area to shadow,
follow the stencil, and change at different times.
During the night, it uses RGB lamps
which are installed in the center of the pillars,
like yellow dragon pillars, golden dragon pillars,
and the patterns of movement colors,
brightness can be changed according to the installed program.
Expected results from this “Social” sculpture
In addition to helping the work to convey the traditional culture of living.
of the Chinese community in this area of ​​Sam Yan and Suan Luang
Large and colorful designed art sculptures with light
will attract visitors. at the appointment
can be a gathering point for people
This will have a positive effect on the shops that come into the area around the sculpture.
Thank you.